hello welcome to the studio I'm going to
share something very exciting with you
the New Windsor Newton large watercolor
pans William Windsor discovered the
moisture retention qualities of glycerin
and it allowed him to make moist pan
watercolor that allow for instant
applications of color for the painter
Windsor Newton now puts out colors in
tubes and in pans tubes are used for
large applications of washes who you
have to put out large quantities of
color pans allow you to instantly pick
up color and start to work without
having the fuss or the bother to have to
try and open up tubes Windsor Newton
large watercolor pans are 13 times the
size of a half pan watercolor they
allowed a large area for mixing and
picking up color the dishes are
porcelain the hold large quantities of
the wash so you can build up large wash
quantities on the inside and the sloped
side of the container allows you to take
surplus color off your brush and appoint
your brush before you start to paint the
porcelain dishes are stackable you can
stack them up keep them on the corner of
your drawing board or your studio for
whenever you need instant color for
large applications of washes the
watercolor pans allow color to be
released a minute water is on the pan by
adding more water to the pan you can mix
up very strong juicy heavy washes and
very high intensity this is cadmium
yellow I'm using here which is an opaque
pigment and it's coloring over the
existing watercolor and just look at
that color I mean this is amazing I mean
this was from a dry pan and just
immediately the color starts to wet up I
can switch to another color here I'm
taking a bit of opera rose and if I take
that just add the water and it's wedding
up look I'm gay
absolutely beautiful instant color
happening here and that's the advantage
of the pants for the first time
watercolor painters have got the same
thing going for them as well PA painters
and acrylic painters I've got my colors
here I can go ahead and I can just reach
out and get each color and if I want a
bit of green I can put it in if I want
to put some violet in it's at the other
end of the palette here instantly I pick
it up and I can pick up a really good
violet here and just start to put that
right in onto my painting this is
something that watercolor painters never
ever had before these things are
absolutely amazing
they're they change the whole way that
watercolors and colorist are going to
paint the minute I started working with
these things I just couldn't believe how
good they were Windsor Newton pan and
tube watercolors are formulated
differently many artists take the tube
color and squeeze it out onto a pallet
and they allow the color to dry this
color is not formulated for this and
what will happen is the color becomes
very dry and in some cases gray and it
will not rewetting when you're working
with it
cube colors have agents in them that
help with the blending and the
dispersion of color and these disappear
when the paint dries what you're left
with here is basically the pigment well
all the things that Windsor Newton has
put in the color to make it a true
artist watercolor the idea of dispensing
Cube colors out and letting them dried
is not recommended you are far better if
you want instant color to use pans up
until now that was a little trickier
because there were the small pans but
now that we have these large pans
artists have instant color that they can
use any time and don't have to put out
tube color and let it dry overnight and
try and rewrite it in the morning
choice is yours whether you want to work
in Windsor Newton artist watercolor in
tubes or in the super new artist
watercolor pounds
both offer the best artists watercolor
and working properties that is a
watercolors chicken you can expect for
more information visit Windsor Newton on
the web at WWE Newton calm or our
product literature thank you very much
you